Updated concepts, getting started, and why Dapr Agents pages (#4746)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/dapr-agents/dapr-agents-getting-started.md

---

{{% alert title="Dapr Agents Concepts" color="primary" %}}
If you are looking for an introductory overview of Dapr Agents and want to learn more about basic Dapr Agents terminology, we recommend starting with the [introduction](dapr-agents-introduction.md) and [concepts](dapr-agents-core-concepts.md) sections.
{{% /alert %}}

## Install Dapr CLI

> While simple examples in Dapr Agents can be used without the sidecar, the recommended mode is with the Dapr sidecar. To benefit from the full power of Dapr Agents, install the Dapr CLI for running Dapr locally or on Kubernetes for development purposes. For a complete step-by-step guide, follow the  [Dapr CLI installation page](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started/install-dapr-cli/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While simple examples in Dapr Agents can be used without the sidecar, the recommended mode is with the Dapr sidecar. To benefit from the full power of Dapr Agents, install the Dapr CLI for running Dapr locally or on Kubernetes for development purposes. For a complete step-by-step guide, follow the  [Dapr CLI installation page]({{% ref install-dapr-cli.md %}}).
```

Verify the CLI is installed by restarting your terminal/command prompt and running the following:

```bash
dapr -h
```

## Initialize Dapr in Local Mode

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}
Make sure you have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/get-docker/) already installed.
{{% /alert %}}

> Initialize Dapr locally to set up a self-hosted environment for development. This process fetches and installs the Dapr sidecar binaries, runs essential services as Docker containers, and prepares a default components folder for your application. For detailed steps, see the official [guide on initializing Dapr locally](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started/install-dapr-selfhost/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initialize Dapr locally to set up a self-hosted environment for development. This process fetches and installs the Dapr sidecar binaries, runs essential services as Docker containers, and prepares a default components folder for your application. For detailed steps, see the official [guide on initializing Dapr locally]({{% ref install-dapr-selfhost.md %}}).
```

    asyncio.run(main())
```

This code creates an agent with a single weather tool and uses Dapr for memory persistence.

### 4. Set up virtual environment to install dapr-agent

For the latest version of Dapr Agents, check the [PyPI page](https://pypi.org/project/dapr-agents/).

Create a `requirements.txt` file with the necessary dependencies:

```txt
dapr-agents
python-dotenv
```

Create and activate a virtual environment, then install the dependencies:

```bash
# Create a virtual environment
python3.10 -m venv .venv

# Activate the virtual environment 
# On Windows:
.venv\Scripts\activate
# On macOS/Linux:
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 5. Run with Dapr

```bash
dapr run --app-id weatheragent --resources-path ./components -- python weather_agent.py
```

This command starts a Dapr sidecar with the conversation component and launches the agent that communicates with the sidecar for state persistence. Notice how in the agent's responses, it remembers the user's name from the first chat interaction, demonstrating the conversation memory in action.

### 6. Enable Redis Insights (Optional)

> Dapr uses [Redis](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/components-reference/supported-state-stores/setup-redis/) by default for state management and pub/sub messaging, which are fundamental to Dapr Agents's agentic workflows. To inspect the Redis instance, a great tool to use is Redis Insight, and you can use it to inspect the agent memory populated earlier. To run Redis Insights, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr uses [Redis]({{% ref setup-redis.md %}}) by default for state management and pub/sub messaging, which are fundamental to Dapr Agents's agentic workflows. To inspect the Redis instance, a great tool to use is Redis Insight, and you can use it to inspect the agent memory populated earlier. To run Redis Insights, run:
```

Redis Insight makes it easy to visualize and manage the data powering your agentic workflows, ensuring efficient debugging, monitoring, and optimization.

![Redis Dashboard](/images/dapr-agents/redis_dashboard.png)

Here you can browse the state store used in the agent and explore its data.

## Next Steps

> Now that you have Dapr Agents installed and running, explore more advanced examples and patterns in the [quickstarts](dapr-agents-quickstarts.md) section to learn about multi-agent workflows, durable agents, and integration with Dapr's powerful distributed capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have Dapr Agents installed and running, explore more advanced examples and patterns in the [quickstarts]({{% ref dapr-agents-quickstarts.md %}}) section to learn about multi-agent workflows, durable agents, and integration with Dapr's powerful distributed capabilities.
```
